Hello, and welcome to the Decision Trees section.
Let me introduce the concept of decision trees by
playing this fun game on the Internet. It's called the Akinator.
And the way it works is the genie will ask you questions about some character,
and based on these questions, it'll guess who it is.
The questions, as you can see,
will get more and more educated as the genie narrowed down who the person is.
This is the exact same thing decisions trees do.
They ask you questions and questions about the data until they narrow
the information down well enough to make a prediction.
So let's play it, and I'll choose one of my favorite character from history,
the great mathematician Hypatia.
And here we have her Wikipedia page to help us out,
so let's start answering questions.
First question, is your character an adult man?
Nope. Is your character older than 18?
Yes, way older than 18.
Has your character ever been pregnant?
Well, it says there were no kids known,
so I'm going to go for no. Is your character a YouTuber?
Well, she would have been a wonderful Youtuber,
but she was born way before Youtube was a thing, so no.
Has your character recorded any albums? Again, no.
Does your character have a cell phone?
Nope, way before cell phones.
Has your character really existed?
Of course. Is your character a citizen of the United States?
Nope, she was Egyptian.
Has your character ever been married?
Well, Wikipedia is not sure,
so I'm going to go for a 'don't know'.
Has your character been dead for more than a hundred years?
Yes, way more than a hundred years.
Is your character in the Bible?
No. Is your character an orphan?
I don't think so. Her dad was known, so no.
Is your character European?
Well, she was in the Roman Empire but she was born in Egypt,
so I'm going to go for no.
Is your character from Eastern Europe? Again, no.
Oh, we're getting there. Is your character Egyptian?
Yes. Is your character obsessed with waffles?
No. Is your character a woman?
Yes. Did your character know Cleopatra?
Well, they didn't live in the same period of time, so no.
Was your character a Pharaoh? No, she wasn't.
Does your character live in Utah?
No. Is your character a queen?
No, she was a great mathematician but not a queen.
Was your character a murderer?
Yes, she was brutally murdered.
Is your character a princess?
No. Can your character cast spells?
No. Is your character bad? No, she was very good.
Oh, and the genie did it.
He found the Hypatia of Alexandria. Good job, genie.
The way decision trees work is very similar to these examples.
So, let's dive deeper into them and learn how they work and how they get built.